selection/007_select_item/README.md, before:

# Select Item

## Introduction

This widget is a select `Item` input(`image`, `video`, `volume`, `point_cloud` or `point_cloud_episode`), clicking on it can be processed from python code. In this tutorial you will learn how to use `SelectItem` widget in Supervisely app.

[Read this tutorial in developer portal.](https://developer.supervise.ly/app-development/widgets/selection/selectitem)

## Function signature

```python
SelectItem(
    dataset_id=None,
    show_label=True,
    size=None,
    widget_id=None,
)
```

![default](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/120389559/218035492-9a07432d-8fb0-4dad-b5ff-ccd8ce03a137.png)

## Parameters

|  Parameters  |                   Type                    |       Description        |
| :----------: | :---------------------------------------: | :----------------------: |
| `dataset_id` |                   `int`                   |       `Dataset` ID       |
|  `compact`   |                  `bool`                   | Show only dataset select |
| `show_label` |                  `bool`                   |        Show label        |
|    `size`    | `Literal["large", "small", "mini", None]` |      Selector size       |
| `widget_id`  |                   `str`                   |     ID of the widget     |

### dataset_id

Determine Supervisely dataset from which items will be selected.

**type:** `int`

**default value:** `None`

```python
select_item = SelectItem(dataset_id=dataset_id)
```

![dataset_id](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/120389559/218035699-aa403402-6a7d-41af-a93c-ffb0b4f2df7c.png)

### compact

Show only `Dataset` select.

**type:** `bool`

**default value:** `true`

```python
select_item = SelectItem(
    dataset_id=dataset_id,
    compact=False,
)
```

![compact](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/120389559/221548050-4e7707fb-a665-43c6-a7db-8f969b212c63.png)

### show_label

Determine show text `Item` on widget or not.

**type:** `bool`

**default value:** `True`

```python
select_item = SelectItem(
    dataset_id=dataset_id,
    show_label=False,
)
```

![show_label](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/120389559/218035951-70b5d164-d7f4-44a2-85f8-4da65c112cae.png)

### size

Size of input.

**type:** `Literal["large", "small", "mini", None]`

**default value:** `None`

```python
select_item = SelectItem(
    dataset_id=dataset_id,
    show_label=False,
)
select_mini = SelectItem(
    dataset_id=dataset_id,
    show_label=False,
    size="mini",
)
select_small = SelectItem(
    dataset_id=dataset_id,
    show_label=False,
    size="small",
)
select_large = SelectItem(
    dataset_id=dataset_id,
    show_label=False,
    size="large",
)
card = Card(
    title="Select Item",
    content=Container(widgets=[
        select_item,
        select_mini,
        select_small,
        select_large,
    ]),
)
```

![size](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/120389559/218725835-a36971d3-cc88-4169-9366-b7b5b383486e.png)

### widget_id

ID of the widget.

**type:** `str`

**default value:** `None`

## Methods and attributes

|                  Attributes and Methods                  | Description                       |
| :------------------------------------------------------: | --------------------------------- |
|                   `get_selected_id()`                    | Return selected item id.          |
| `refresh_items(dataset_id: int = None, limit: int = 50)` | Update items by given dataset id. |

## Mini App Example

You can find this example in our Github repository:

[supervisely-ecosystem/ui-widgets-demos/selection/007_select_item/src/main.py](https://github.com/supervisely-ecosystem/ui-widgets-demos/blob/master/selection/007_select_item/src/main.py)

### Import libraries

```python
import os

import supervisely as sly
from dotenv import load_dotenv
from supervisely.app.widgets import Card, Container, SelectItem
```

### Init API client

First, we load environment variables with credentials and init API for communicating with Supervisely Instance:

```python
load_dotenv("local.env")
load_dotenv(os.path.expanduser("~/supervisely.env"))

api = sly.Api()
```

### Prepare `Dataset` ID

```python
dataset_id = sly.env.dataset_id()
```

### Initialize `SelectItem` widget

```python
select_item = SelectItem(dataset_id=dataset_id)
```

### Create app layout

Prepare a layout for app using `Card` widget with the `content` parameter and place widget that we've just created in the `Container` widget.

```python
card = Card(
    title="Select Item",
    content=Container(widgets=[select_item]),
)

layout = Container(widgets=[card])
```

### Create app using layout

Create an app object with layout parameter.

```python
app = sly.Application(layout=layout)
```

![layout](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/120389559/218036360-09d6f530-42c7-43bd-a2f7-05d7d3f6f252.png)

Commit message:

Input category widget updated + fixes (#60)
* Moved BindedInputNumber widget to Input category

* Input category updated

* update intro

selection/007_select_item/README.md, after:

# Select Item

## Introduction

**`SelectItem`** widget can show selector for project items (depending on project type: `image`, `video`, `volume`, `point_cloud` or `point_cloud_episode`), clicking on it can be processed from python code. In this tutorial you will learn how to use `SelectItem` widget in Supervisely app.


[Read this tutorial in developer portal.](https://developer.supervise.ly/app-development/widgets/selection/selectitem)

## Function signature

```python
SelectItem(
    dataset_id=None,
    show_label=True,
    size=None,
    widget_id=None,
)
```

![default](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/120389559/218035492-9a07432d-8fb0-4dad-b5ff-ccd8ce03a137.png)

## Parameters

|  Parameters  |                   Type                    |       Description        |
| :----------: | :---------------------------------------: | :----------------------: |
| `dataset_id` |                   `int`                   |       `Dataset` ID       |
|  `compact`   |                  `bool`                   | Show only dataset select |
| `show_label` |                  `bool`                   |        Show label        |
|    `size`    | `Literal["large", "small", "mini", None]` |      Selector size       |
| `widget_id`  |                   `str`                   |     ID of the widget     |

### dataset_id

Determine Supervisely dataset from which items will be selected.

**type:** `int`

**default value:** `None`

```python
select_item = SelectItem(dataset_id=dataset_id)
```

![dataset_id](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/120389559/218035699-aa403402-6a7d-41af-a93c-ffb0b4f2df7c.png)

### compact

Show only `Dataset` select.

**type:** `bool`

**default value:** `true`

```python
select_item = SelectItem(
    dataset_id=dataset_id,
    compact=False,
)
```

![compact](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/120389559/221548050-4e7707fb-a665-43c6-a7db-8f969b212c63.png)

### show_label

Determine show text `Item` on widget or not.

**type:** `bool`

**default value:** `True`

```python
select_item = SelectItem(
    dataset_id=dataset_id,
    show_label=False,
)
```

![show_label](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/120389559/218035951-70b5d164-d7f4-44a2-85f8-4da65c112cae.png)

### size

Size of input.

**type:** `Literal["large", "small", "mini", None]`

**default value:** `None`

```python
select_item = SelectItem(
    dataset_id=dataset_id,
    show_label=False,
)
select_mini = SelectItem(
    dataset_id=dataset_id,
    show_label=False,
    size="mini",
)
select_small = SelectItem(
    dataset_id=dataset_id,
    show_label=False,
    size="small",
)
select_large = SelectItem(
    dataset_id=dataset_id,
    show_label=False,
    size="large",
)
card = Card(
    title="Select Item",
    content=Container(widgets=[
        select_item,
        select_mini,
        select_small,
        select_large,
    ]),
)
```

![size](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/120389559/218725835-a36971d3-cc88-4169-9366-b7b5b383486e.png)

### widget_id

ID of the widget.

**type:** `str`

**default value:** `None`

## Methods and attributes

|                  Attributes and Methods                  | Description                       |
| :------------------------------------------------------: | --------------------------------- |
|                   `get_selected_id()`                    | Return selected item id.          |
| `refresh_items(dataset_id: int = None, limit: int = 50)` | Update items by given dataset id. |

## Mini App Example

You can find this example in our Github repository:

[supervisely-ecosystem/ui-widgets-demos/selection/007_select_item/src/main.py](https://github.com/supervisely-ecosystem/ui-widgets-demos/blob/master/selection/007_select_item/src/main.py)

### Import libraries

```python
import os

import supervisely as sly
from dotenv import load_dotenv
from supervisely.app.widgets import Card, Container, SelectItem
```

### Init API client

First, we load environment variables with credentials and init API for communicating with Supervisely Instance:

```python
load_dotenv("local.env")
load_dotenv(os.path.expanduser("~/supervisely.env"))

api = sly.Api()
```

### Prepare `Dataset` ID

```python
dataset_id = sly.env.dataset_id()
```

### Initialize `SelectItem` widget

```python
select_item = SelectItem(dataset_id=dataset_id)
```

### Create app layout

Prepare a layout for app using `Card` widget with the `content` parameter and place widget that we've just created in the `Container` widget.

```python
card = Card(
    title="Select Item",
    content=Container(widgets=[select_item]),
)

layout = Container(widgets=[card])
```

### Create app using layout

Create an app object with layout parameter.

```python
app = sly.Application(layout=layout)
```

![layout](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/120389559/218036360-09d6f530-42c7-43bd-a2f7-05d7d3f6f252.png)
