compare data/003_match_obj_classes/README.md, before:

# Match Objects Classes

## Introduction

In this tutorial you will learn how to use `MatchObjClasses` widget in Supervisely app.

[Read this tutorial in developer portal.](https://developer.supervise.ly/app-development/apps-with-gui/matchobjclasses)

## Function signature

```python
MatchObjClasses(
    left_collection=None,
    right_collection=None,
    left_name=None,
    right_name=None,
    selectable=False,
    suffix=None,
    widget_id=None,
)
```

![default](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/120389559/221399402-fab17435-f5e8-4746-b331-1e33f52b44ae.png)

## Parameters

|     Parameters     |                       Type                        |                                      Description                                       |
| :----------------: | :-----------------------------------------------: | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
| `left_collection`  | `Union[ObjClassCollection, List[ObjClass], None]` | List of `ObjClass` or `ObjClassCollection`, containing information about left classes  |
| `right_collection` | `Union[ObjClassCollection, List[ObjClass], None]` | List of `ObjClass` or `ObjClassCollection`, containing information about right classes |
|    `left_name`     |                       `str`                       |                                 Left part classes name                                 |
|    `right_name`    |                       `str`                       |                                Right part classes name                                 |
|    `selectable`    |                      `bool`                       |                          Whether the component is selectable                           |
|      `suffix`      |                       `str`                       |                             Suffix to match classes names                              |
|    `widget_id`     |                       `str`                       |                                    Id of the widget                                    |

### left_collection

Determine information about left classes.

**type:** `Union[ObjClassCollection, List[ObjClass], None]`

**default value:** `None`

### right_collection

Determine information about right classes.

**type:** `Union[ObjClassCollection, List[ObjClass], None]`

**default value:** `None`

```python
match = MatchObjClasses(left_collection=left_classes, right_collection=right_classes)
```

![default](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/120389559/221399402-fab17435-f5e8-4746-b331-1e33f52b44ae.png)

### left_name

Determine left part classes name.

**type:** `Union[str, None]`

**default value:** `None`

### right_name

Determine right part classes name.

**type:** `Union[str, None]`

**default value:** `None`

```python
match = MatchObjClasses(
    left_collection=left_classes,
    right_collection=right_classes,
    left_name="left classes",
    right_name="right classes",
)
```

![left_right](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/120389559/221399783-5701401c-fc6e-43ff-99e3-58c872b610a5.png)

### selectable

Whether the components are selectable.

**type:** `bool`

**default value:** `False`

```python
match = MatchObjClasses(left_collection=left_classes, right_collection=right_classes, selectable=True)
```

![selectable](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/120389559/221399859-42ff1a90-14c5-40f9-a99b-26e64af47c6b.gif)

### suffix

Use to match classes names.

**type:** `Union[str, None]`

**default value:** `None`

### widget_id

ID of the widget.

**type:** `str`

**default value:** `None`

## Methods and attributes

|                                                                                                                      Attributes and Methods                                                                                                                      | Description                                      |
| :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | ------------------------------------------------ |
| `set(left_collection: Union[ObjClassCollection, List[ObjClass], None] = None, right_collection: Union[ObjClassCollection, List[ObjClass], None] = None, left_name=Union[str, None] = None, right_name=Union[str, None] = None, suffix: Union[str, None] = None)` | Set input data in left and right part of widget. |
|                                                                                                                           `get_stat()`                                                                                                                           | Return classes match statistics.                 |

## Mini App Example

You can find this example in our Github repository:

[supervisely-ecosystem/ui-widgets-demos/056_match_obj_classes/src/main.py](https://github.com/supervisely-ecosystem/ui-widgets-demos/blob/master/056_match_obj_classes/src/main.py)

### Import libraries

```python
import os
import supervisely as sly
from supervisely.app.widgets import Card, Container, MatchObjClasses
from dotenv import load_dotenv
```

### Init API client

First, we load environment variables with credentials and init API for communicating with Supervisely Instance:

```python
load_dotenv("local.env")
load_dotenv(os.path.expanduser("~/supervisely.env"))

api = sly.Api()
```

### Prepare `ObjClasses` we will matched

```python
project_id_left = int(os.environ["modal.state.slyProjectId_left"])
meta_json_left = api.project.get_meta(project_id_left)
project_meta_left = sly.ProjectMeta.from_json(meta_json_left)
left_classes = project_meta_left.obj_classes

project_id_right = int(os.environ["modal.state.slyProjectId_right"])
meta_json_right = api.project.get_meta(project_id_right)
project_meta_right = sly.ProjectMeta.from_json(meta_json_right)
right_classes = project_meta_right._obj_classes
```

### Initialize `MatchObjClasses` widget, initiate `suffix` to match classes with similar names

```python
match = MatchObjClasses(
    left_collection=left_classes, right_collection=right_classes, suffix="erity"
)
```

### Create app layout

Prepare a layout for app using `Card` widget with the `content` parameter and place widget that we've just created in the `Container` widget.

```python
card = Card(
    title="Match Classes",
    content=match,
)
layout = Container(widgets=[card])
```

### Create app using layout

Create an app object with layout parameter.

```python
app = sly.Application(layout=layout)
```

![layout](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/120389559/221400207-007f741a-8d1c-47aa-8eaa-1179d634b043.gif)

Commit message:

check and update Compare Data category readmes (#68)

compare data/003_match_obj_classes/README.md, after:

# Match Objects Classes

## Introduction

**`MatchObjClasses`** widget allows you to compare object classes between projects based on their names, geometry types, and name suffix. It displays the matching and non-matching object classes in a table form and provides the option to filter the results based on the match status. This widget is particularly useful when you want to compare object classes between different projects in Supervisely.

[Read this tutorial in developer portal.](https://developer.supervise.ly/app-development/widgets/compare-data/matchobjclasses)

## Function signature

```python
MatchObjClasses(
    left_collection=None,
    right_collection=None,
    left_name=None,
    right_name=None,
    selectable=False,
    suffix=None,
    widget_id=None,
)
```

![default](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/120389559/221399402-fab17435-f5e8-4746-b331-1e33f52b44ae.png)

## Parameters

|     Parameters     |                       Type                        |                                      Description                                       |
| :----------------: | :-----------------------------------------------: | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
| `left_collection`  | `Union[ObjClassCollection, List[ObjClass], None]` | List of `ObjClass` or `ObjClassCollection`, containing information about left classes  |
| `right_collection` | `Union[ObjClassCollection, List[ObjClass], None]` | List of `ObjClass` or `ObjClassCollection`, containing information about right classes |
|    `left_name`     |                       `str`                       |                                 Left part classes name                                 |
|    `right_name`    |                       `str`                       |                                Right part classes name                                 |
|    `selectable`    |                      `bool`                       |                          Whether the component is selectable                           |
|      `suffix`      |                       `str`                       |                             Suffix to match classes names                              |
|    `widget_id`     |                       `str`                       |                                    ID of the widget                                    |

### left_collection

Determine information about left classes.

**type:** `Union[ObjClassCollection, List[ObjClass], None]`

**default value:** `None`

### right_collection

Determine information about right classes.

**type:** `Union[ObjClassCollection, List[ObjClass], None]`

**default value:** `None`

```python
match = MatchObjClasses(
    left_collection=left_classes,
    right_collection=right_classes,
)
```

![default](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/120389559/221399402-fab17435-f5e8-4746-b331-1e33f52b44ae.png)

### left_name

Determine left part classes name.

**type:** `Union[str, None]`

**default value:** `None`

### right_name

Determine right part classes name.

**type:** `Union[str, None]`

**default value:** `None`

```python
match = MatchObjClasses(
    left_collection=left_classes,
    right_collection=right_classes,
    left_name="left classes",
    right_name="right classes",
)
```

![left_right](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/120389559/221399783-5701401c-fc6e-43ff-99e3-58c872b610a5.png)

### selectable

Whether the components are selectable.

**type:** `bool`

**default value:** `False`

```python
match = MatchObjClasses(
    left_collection=left_classes,
    right_collection=right_classes,
    selectable=True,
)
```

![selectable](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/120389559/221399859-42ff1a90-14c5-40f9-a99b-26e64af47c6b.gif)

### suffix

Use to match classes names.

**type:** `Union[str, None]`

**default value:** `None`

### widget_id

ID of the widget.

**type:** `str`

**default value:** `None`

## Methods and attributes

|                                                                                                                      Attributes and Methods                                                                                                                      | Description                                      |
| :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | ------------------------------------------------ |
| `set(left_collection: Union[ObjClassCollection, List[ObjClass], None] = None, right_collection: Union[ObjClassCollection, List[ObjClass], None] = None, left_name=Union[str, None] = None, right_name=Union[str, None] = None, suffix: Union[str, None] = None)` | Set input data in left and right part of widget. |
|                                                                                                                           `get_stat()`                                                                                                                           | Return classes match statistics.                 |
|                                                                                                                         `get_selected()`                                                                                                                         | Return list of selected ObjClass names.          |

## Mini App Example

You can find this example in our Github repository:

[supervisely-ecosystem/ui-widgets-demos/compare-data/003_match_obj_classes/src/main.py](https://github.com/supervisely-ecosystem/ui-widgets-demos/blob/master/compare-data/003_match_obj_classes/src/main.py)

### Import libraries

```python
import os
import supervisely as sly
from supervisely.app.widgets import Card, Container, MatchObjClasses
from dotenv import load_dotenv
```

### Init API client

First, we load environment variables with credentials and init API for communicating with Supervisely Instance:

```python
load_dotenv("local.env")
load_dotenv(os.path.expanduser("~/supervisely.env"))

api = sly.Api()
```

### Prepare `ObjClasses` we will matched

```python
project_id_left = 17996
meta_json_left = api.project.get_meta(project_id_left)
project_meta_left = sly.ProjectMeta.from_json(meta_json_left)
left_classes = project_meta_left.obj_classes

project_id_right = 17997
meta_json_right = api.project.get_meta(project_id_right)
project_meta_right = sly.ProjectMeta.from_json(meta_json_right)
right_classes = project_meta_right._obj_classes
```

### Initialize `MatchObjClasses` widget

```python
match = MatchObjClasses(
    left_collection=left_classes,
    right_collection=right_classes,
    suffix="erity",
)
```

### Create app layout

Prepare a layout for app using `Card` widget with the `content` parameter and place widget that we've just created in the `Container` widget.

```python
card = Card(
    title="Match Classes",
    content=match,
)
layout = Container(widgets=[card])
```

### Create app using layout

Create an app object with layout parameter.

```python
app = sly.Application(layout=layout)
```

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/120389559/221400207-007f741a-8d1c-47aa-8eaa-1179d634b043.gif" alt="layout" />
</p>
